# ESGF Compute Working Team Meeting - 2023-03-20

## Logistics

Where: Zoom

When:  20/03/2023

Who:  ESGF CWT:
- Ag Stephens (STFC CEDA)
- Carsten Ehbrecht (DKRZ)
- Sasha Ames (LLNL)
- David Huard (Ouranos)
- Katharina Berger (DKRZ)
- Rob Jacob (ANL)
- Ezequiel Cimadevilla (Instituto de Física de Cantabria (IFCA))

## Actions

- [ ] AS/CE: think about roocs caching of remote data.
- [ ] DH: Ask colleagues if they have thoughts on how caching of data could be managed within `roocs`.
- [ ] AS/CE: Implement the API KEY from the start. We might be able to use Keycloak to provide this.

## Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions

3. Actions and minutes from last meeting
- [x] AS: Report recommencement of CWT meetings to ESGF XC
- [x] AS: Publish and share meeting minutes
- [x] AS: Share the roadmap with the XC and Slack team - https://github.com/ESGF/esgf-cwt/milestones
- [x] AS/CE: Draft the Terms of Reference then share: - https://github.com/ESGF/esgf-cwt/blob/main/documents/esgf-cwt-tor-2022-12-12.pdf

3. Roadmap:
- the team reviewed the Roadmap, at: [https://github.com/ESGF/esgf-cwt/issues/5](https://github.com/ESGF/esgf-cwt/milestones)

4. Discussion and questions


5. Current Team Efforts:

- C3S roocs
- Proxy usage in the `roocs` stack
- CaSPAr plans
- Kerchunk thoughts/plans
- CMIP7 Data Access Team
- ESGF-Hybrid reports


5. Next steps:
   - add a “compute” section to this page on the ESGF site? https://esgf.github.io/projects.html
     - Fork github.com/ESGF/esgf.github.io/
     - commit updates, and create a PR for SA to merge
     - Can rewrite the entire CWT/Compute section.
     - DH: can review drafts (or draft)

6. AOB:
   - Next meeting:
     - Date: 17/04/2023 (avoiding 10th because UK holiday)
 
